Array 1.33.0 (#3034)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/the-posthog-array-1-33-0.md

---
date: 2022-02-28
title: Array 1.33.0
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
categories: ["Release notes", "Product updates"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-array-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
excerpt: Introducing a full multivariate Experimentation suite, granular permissions on dashboards, Altinity Cloud support for ClickHouse, configuring your instance from the PostHog UI and 290+ improvements/fixes.
---

> PostHog 1.33.0 introduces a full Experimentation suite! A/B/C/... changes to your product to ensure you maximize value for your end users. For Enterprise customers, you can now set granular permissions on dashboards. An easier way to configure your instance, support for Altinity Cloud, insight legends, insight permalinks and 290+ improvements/fixes are included.

Reviewer: "A/B/C/...-test" perhaps?

Author: Outdated

> PostHog 1.33.0 introduces a full Experimentation suite! A/B/C/... changes to your product to ensure you maximize value for your end users. For Enterprise customers, you can now set granular permissions on dashboards. An easier way to configure your instance, support for Altinity Cloud, insight legends, insight permalinks and 290+ improvements/fixes are included.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PostHog 1.33.0 introduces a full Experimentation suite, enabling you to run multivariate experiments to ensure you maximize value for your end users. 

For Enterprise customers, we've also added the ability to set granular permissions on dashboards, support for Altinity Cloud, insight legends and insight permalinks. Plus, there are over 290+ improvements and bugfixes included!
```

@paolodamico can you double check this? I've updated, but I'm still unclear on if Altinity cloud, legends and permalinks are enterprise features.

<blockquote class='warning-note'>

> <b>IMPORTANT!</b> Do not upgrade to this version if you have deployed PostHog using Postgres. PostHog no longer supports a Postgres-based installation (last version supported is <code>1.30.0</code>) and now requires Clickhouse. To use this version, you must <a href="/docs/self-host/migrate-from-postgres-to-clickhouse" target="_blank">upgrade to ClickHouse</a> first.

Reviewer: This wording may be confusing because _everyone_ deploys PostHog using Postgres. We should be careful to indicate this warning is only intended for those who have an installation where _analytics_ is Postgres-based.

> <b>IMPORTANT!</b> Do not upgrade to this version if you have deployed PostHog using Postgres. PostHog no longer supports a Postgres-based installation (last version supported is <code>1.30.0</code>) and now requires Clickhouse. To use this version, you must <a href="/docs/self-host/migrate-from-postgres-to-clickhouse" target="_blank">upgrade to ClickHouse</a> first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<b>IMPORTANT!</b> Do not upgrade to this version if you have deployed PostHog using Postgres. PostHog no longer supports a Postgres-based installation (last version supported is <code>1.30.0</code>) and now requires ClickHouse. To use this version, you must <a href="/docs/self-host/migrate-from-postgres-to-clickhouse" target="_blank">upgrade to ClickHouse</a> first.
```

</blockquote>

## PostHog 1.33.0 release notes

> To upgrade your PostHog instance, you can check out our [upgrade guide](/docs/self-host/configure/upgrading-posthog).

**Release highlights:**

> - [Experimentation](#new-experimentation)

Reviewer: Why does this list have only one item?

### New: Experimentation

> A full end-to-end A/B testing suite is now part of PostHog! Feature Flags were already powerful and you could technically use them to run A/B tests, but with a lot of manual work. This new feature will help you plan your experiment (select users, determine sample size exposure, determine estimated run time), allocate users evenly across test groups, track results seamlessly and let you know once your results reach statistical significance.

Author: FYI @neilkakkar

> A full end-to-end A/B testing suite is now part of PostHog! Feature Flags were already powerful and you could technically use them to run A/B tests, but with a lot of manual work. This new feature will help you plan your experiment (select users, determine sample size exposure, determine estimated run time), allocate users evenly across test groups, track results seamlessly and let you know once your results reach statistical significance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A full end-to-end A/B testing suite is now part of PostHog! [Feature Flags](/product/feature-flags) were already powerful and you could technically use them to run A/B tests, but with a lot of manual work. This new feature will help you plan your experiment (select users, determine sample size exposure, determine estimated run time), allocate users evenly across test groups, track results seamlessly and let you know once your results reach statistical significance.
```

<img src="https://posthog-static-files.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Website-Assets/Array/1_33_0-experiments.png" alt="Screenshot: Experiments view" />

> With Experimentation, you can now test multiple variants to optimize for a specific metric, or even conversion rate for a funnel. You'll now be able to ship product changes confidently while maintaining speed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With [Experimentation](/docs/user-guides/experimentation), you can now test multiple variants to optimize for a specific metric, or even conversion rate for a funnel. You'll now be able to ship product changes confidently while maintaining speed.
```

<img src="https://posthog-static-files.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Website-Assets/Array/1_33_0-experiments-2.png" alt="Screenshot: Experiments with a funnel conversion rate target metric" />

> 🎁 Experimentation is a premium feature and requires a PostHog Scale or Enterprise license. [Learn more](/pricing).

<br />

### New: Dashboard permissions

> To introduce more detailed control to dashboards for large teams, PostHog now lets you select different edit permissions for each dashboard. You can select whether anyone can edit a dashboard or just a specific list of team members. This can help prevent accidental edits and provide confidence that the dashboards are showing the metrics you intend. Underlying insights in a dashboard are also protected from edit when this setting is enabled.

Author: FYI @Twixes

<img src="https://posthog-static-files.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Website-Assets/Array/1_33_0-dashboard-permissions.png" alt="Screenshot: Dashboard permissions" />

> 🎁 Dashboard permissions is a premium feature and requires a **PostHog Enterprise** license. [Learn more](/pricing).

<br />

### New: Altitiny Cloud support

> We've partnered up with Altinity to offer a worry-free managed ClickHouse database. Altinity are experts in Clickhouse and data infrastructure and they help large organizations to deploy, manage and scale their PostHog instance.

Author: FYI @macobo

Reviewer 4: This requires a bit of testing on our end to document (cc @guidoiaquinti).

Do you have the docker image for the release ready (or a candidate)? If so, we can try it out and hopefully close out https://github.com/PostHog/charts-clickhouse/issues/279

Author: I do, yes! We're still missing one final cherrypick for the async migrations thing, but mostly good to go, `sha256:698eb33a53af2bfd4e72e4bef5f2774af445bbfabc49fe7802c7dcdffb51c8b9` or `release-1.33.0-unstable`

Reviewer 4: Perfect. I'll update this release note once we have the documentation ready.

> We've partnered up with Altinity to offer a worry-free managed ClickHouse database. Altinity are experts in Clickhouse and data infrastructure and they help large organizations to deploy, manage and scale their PostHog instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We've partnered up with Altinity to offer a worry-free managed ClickHouse database. Altinity is an expert in Clickhouse and data infrastructure and it can help large organizations to deploy, manage and scale their PostHog instance.
```

Companies are singular

Find out more about our Altinity integration in our [Marketplace docs](/marketplace/altinity).

<br />

### New: Instance configuration UI

We're significantly improving the way you manage your PostHog instance. Some settings are now configurable directly on the UI, instead of you having to rely on environment variables (e.g. email settings). You can read more about these settings in the [instance settings docs](/docs/self-host/configure/instance-settings) and [environment variables docs](/docs/self-host/configure/environment-variables).

<img src="https://posthog-static-files.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Website-Assets/Array/1_33_0-instance-configuration.png" alt="Screenshot: Instance configuration" />

<br />

> ### Other improvements & fixes

Reviewer 4: Missing: Async migrations (need to run async migration to speed things up before next release). cc @yakkomajuri

Reviewer 4: Resolving - the other thread paolo set up actually covers this

> 

Reviewer 4: (I think) missing: `person_distinct_id2` async migration will automatically complete for new users (cc @tiina303 / @yakkomajuri  please confirm) others can run the async migration manually. Speeds up queries if you have >10M unique users >70%.

Author: Added, thanks Karl

> - Improved: Short robust permalinks. When sharing an insight link (e.g. `https://app.posthog.com/insights/BYt1oFdI`), we'll now automatically switch you to the relevant project (if the link is from a different project). You can now be confident, the recipient we'll see the insight you intended.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Improved: Short robust permalinks. When sharing an insight link (e.g. `https://app.posthog.com/insights/BYt1oFdI`), we'll now automatically switch you to the relevant project (if the link is from a different project). You can now be confident the recipient we'll see the insight you intended.
```

- Improved: Smarter events and property filters. We've made a lot of improvements to how we show events and event properties across the app. We'll now only show you the relevant properties for a specific event and we'll signal when an event has not been seen in the last 30 days, so you can create insights faster.
- Improved: Redesigned share dashboard modal. We've made it simpler and more clear when your dashboard is shared, internally and externally.
- New: Insight legends. Each insight now offers a legend within each graph to provide clarity to what each line represents. This is particularly useful when sharing screenshots of an insight so the recipient knows what each line represents.
- Improved: Automatic API documentation. We've implemented [Swagger](https://github.com/swagger-api) to automatically generate API docs to ensure these are always up-to-date.
- Improved: Performance of Events page. The events page will now load up to 10x faster! We've improved the way queries are performed, and what information is loaded to reduce load times to a minimum. 
- Plus 290+ improvements & fixes.

### Deprecation & removal notices

> No new deprecation notices in this release.

Author: @yakkomajuri anything we need to add in this array re async migrations?

Reviewer: "No new" ones, but is there anything we should remind about? If not, we could just remove the section.

Author: Added async migrations information

---
date: 2022-02-28
title: Array 1.33.0
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
categories: ["Release notes", "Product updates"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-array-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
excerpt: Introducing a full multivariate Experimentation suite, granular permissions on dashboards, Altinity Cloud support for ClickHouse, configuring your instance from the PostHog UI and 290+ improvements/fixes.
---

PostHog 1.33.0 introduces a full Experimentation suite, enabling you to run multivariate experiments to ensure you maximize value for your end users. Introducing also support for a managed ClickHouse infrastructure through Altinity Cloud, insight legends and insight permalinks. Plus, there are over 290+ improvements and bugfixes included!

For Enterprise customers, we've also added the ability to set granular permissions on dashboards. 

<blockquote class='warning-note'>

> <b>IMPORTANT!</b> From this version onwards, you'll need to make sure to run all async migrations on your instance after upgrading. The next version (1.34.0) will not run until async migrations are completed. Please check out the <a href="/docs/self-host/configure/async-migrations/overview" target="_blank">async migrations</a> docs for details.

Reviewer 5: Fine as is though note: because the page existed on 1.32 too, it would be good to be super specific that the steps are: (1) upgrade to 1.33.0 (2) run the async migrations.

Author: updated

</blockquote>

## PostHog 1.33.0 release notes

> To upgrade your PostHog instance, you can check out our [upgrade guide](/docs/self-host/configure/upgrading-posthog).

**Release highlights:**
- [Experimentation](#new-experimentation)
- [Dashboard permissions](#new-dashboard-permissions)
- [Altinity Cloud support](#new-altitiny-cloud-support)
- [Instance configuration UI](#new-instance-configuration-ui)

### New: Experimentation

> PostHog now offers a full end-to-end A/B testing suite! Previously you could use [Feature Flags](/product/feature-flags) to run experiments, but it took a lot of manual work. We wanted to fix that. This new experimentation suite will help you plan tests by selecting users, sample sizes and run times, then track results and let you know when results are statistically significant. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PostHog now offers a full end-to-end A/B testing suite! Previously you could use [Feature Flags](/product/feature-flags) to run experiments, but it took a lot of manual work to setup and interpret. We wanted to fix that. This new experimentation suite will help you plan tests by selecting users, sample sizes and run times, then track results and let you know when results are statistically significant.
```

<img src="https://posthog-static-files.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Website-Assets/Array/1_33_0-experiments.png" alt="Screenshot: Experiments view" />

> With [Experimentation](/docs/user-guides/experimentation), you can now test multiple variants to optimize for a specific metric, or even conversion rate for a funnel. You'll now be able to ship product changes confidently while maintaining speed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With [Experimentation](/docs/user-guides/experimentation), you can now test multiple variants to optimize for a specific metric, or even conversion rate for a funnel. This enables you to ship product changes confidently while maintaining speed.
```

<img src="https://posthog-static-files.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Website-Assets/Array/1_33_0-experiments-2.png" alt="Screenshot: Experiments with a funnel conversion rate target metric" />

> 🎁 Experimentation is a premium feature and requires a PostHog Scale or Enterprise license. [Learn more](/pricing).

<br />

### New: Dashboard permissions

To introduce more detailed control to dashboards for large teams, PostHog now lets you select different edit permissions for each dashboard. You can select whether anyone can edit a dashboard or just a specific list of team members. This can help prevent accidental edits and provide confidence that the dashboards are showing the metrics you intend. Underlying insights in a dashboard are also protected from edit when this setting is enabled.

> <img src="https://posthog-static-files.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Website-Assets/Array/1_33_0-dashboard-permissions.png" alt="Screenshot: Dashboard permissions" />

Reviewer: I'll provide a new screenshot with the https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/pull/8769 fix included, but this is not blocking for merging (blocking for the newsletter though).

> 🎁 Dashboard permissions is a premium feature and requires a **PostHog Enterprise** license. [Learn more](/pricing).

<br />

### New: Altitiny Cloud support

> We've partnered with Altinity to offer a worry-free managed ClickHouse database. Altinity is an expert in ClickHouse and data infrastructure and helps large organizations to deploy, manage and scale their PostHog instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've partnered with Altinity to offer a worry-free managed ClickHouse database. Altinity is an expert in ClickHouse and data infrastructure and helps large organizations to deploy, manage and scale their PostHog instance. If you need to self-host PostHog, but don't want to manage the deployment yourself then Altitiny is the solution for you. 
```

> We've partnered up with Altinity to offer a worry-free managed ClickHouse database. Altinity is an expert in Clickhouse and data infrastructure and it can help large organizations to deploy, manage and scale their PostHog instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've partnered up with Altinity to offer a worry-free managed ClickHouse database. Altinity is an expert in Clickhouse and data infrastructure and it can help large organizations to deploy, manage and scale their PostHog instance. If you need to self-host PostHog but don't want to manage the deployment yourself, Altitiny is the perfect solution for you. 
```

Find out more about our Altinity integration in our [Marketplace docs](/marketplace/altinity).

<br />

### New: Instance configuration UI

We're significantly improving the way you manage your PostHog instance. Some settings are now configurable directly on the UI, instead of you having to rely on environment variables (e.g. email settings). You can read more about these settings in the [instance settings docs](/docs/self-host/configure/instance-settings) and [environment variables docs](/docs/self-host/configure/environment-variables).

<img src="https://posthog-static-files.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Website-Assets/Array/1_33_0-instance-configuration.png" alt="Screenshot: Instance configuration" />

<br />

### Other improvements & fixes

> - Improved: Short robust permalinks. When sharing an insight link (e.g. `https://app.posthog.com/insights/BYt1oFdI`), we'll now automatically switch you to the relevant project (if the link is from a different project). You can now be confident the recipient we'll see the insight you intended.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Improved: Short robust permalinks. When sharing an insight link (e.g. `https://app.posthog.com/insights/BYt1oFdI`), we'll now automatically switch you to the relevant project (if the link is from a different project). You can now be confident the recipient will see the insight you intended.
```

- Improved: Smarter events and property filters. We've made a lot of improvements to how we show events and event properties across the app. We'll now only show you the relevant properties for a specific event and we'll signal when an event has not been seen in the last 30 days, so you can create insights faster.

> - Improved: Redesigned share dashboard modal. We've made it simpler and more clear when your dashboard is shared, internally and externally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Improved: Redesigned share dashboard modal. We've made it simpler and clearer when your dashboard is shared, internally and externally.
```
